+++
date = 2022-05-24
title = "Recently May 2022"
description = "What I've been up to lately."
[taxonomies]
tags = ["Recently"]
+++

This is something new that I'm going to try, a monthly recap/status or
something. I want to write more and become better at it, and I think writing
more frequently will help me achieve this. It will also serve as a kind of log
for what I've been up to.

## What I've been up to?

Since publishing my last blogpost ([paper notes](/blog/paper-notes)) I've
managed to do other stuff besides just sitting on the computer all day. After
work most days I've found time for more trivial stuff like exercising, writing,
reading and house chores. It's been great!

My paper notes-project is going great, I'm writing every single day and I'm
almost through my second Field Notes-book now.

### Homelab

I tidied up my homelab that was running Apache as a reverse proxy. As soon as I
set it up in 2019 I regretted not using nginx as my reverse proxy, so I've been
very hesitant to switch and convert all my local services. But I realized I'm
only postponing something that I really need to do, and when I first did it I
was done in less than an hour. I thought all my services needed a bunch of
configurations, but turned out they didn't.

### New design

If you visited my site before today, you might notice that the design is
slightly different. I went through all my SASS-files and realized that it was
all too complicated, so I decided to delete all of the partials and start over with
just a single `main.scss`. I used some more modern and "easier" CSS rules and a
few mixins to keep it more tidy. I ended up reducing my CSS with about 250 lines.
It's now easier to read and maintain, in my opinion.

### New post

This is actually my second post today! I recently discovered
[Charm](https://charm.sh) while listening to the
[Changelog](https://changelog.com)-podcast. And if you know me, I really like
TUI/terminal-based software. So when I first tried to `ssh` to their Git-server
I was blown away, so I had to setup something like this for myself! So I setup
`git.wyd.no` as my own Git-server for all my Git-stuff, it will work as a
local/self-hosted mirror of my GitHub-repos.

I wrote about how to setup `soft-serve` as a service with systemd:

[How to setup soft-serve as a systemd-service](/soft-serve-systemd/)

### New project - 5545.no (Svelte)

A colleague of mine was talking about how impressed they were with
[Svelte](https://svelte.dev), about how nice it was without a virtual DOM and
having a true reactive state management. So I had to give it a try, and with
most of my more "advanced" _testing out this technology_-projects, I tried to
make a weather app using [Meteorologisk institutt](https://api.met.no)'s API.

It's still a *work in progress*™️, but here it is: [5545.no](https://5545.no)

### First public talk/presentation

A colleague and I was asked if we wanted to talk at the University of Bergen
about UX design and what it's like working as consultant in a course (INFO263).

Both my colleague and I were fresh out of the same University last year, and we
had also taken the course in question (I even got my job because of it). Our
presentation was outlined like this:

- What tools do we use
- Case: Ambita tinglysing (property deed/title/register)
  - Getting insight
  - User testing
  - Development method (scrum)
- From idea to finished product
- What is it like to be a consultant?
- What is it like to work at Netlife?
- From being a student to working full time

### Failing

At work we are trying to make a safe space around talking about failing, and
sharing experiences where we've failed (trying to find the right word, looking
through my Norwegian-English dictionary I can't find the translation). And that
is something I want to become better at, writing and talking about failing,
either it's a whole project or just trying to solve a simple problem. I believe
documenting it could help yourself and others to not fall in the same pitfalls.

## What's next?

Not sure if I should set goals for what I want to do for June, but I guess it 
couldn't hurt.

- Read at least 1 new book.
- Write at least 1 new post.
- Push all my existing repos to `git.wyd.no`
