+++
title = "June 2023"
description = "What I've been up to since May."
[taxonomies]
tags = ["Recently", "100 days to offload"]
+++

June was a productive month, I managed to write a bunch of different posts and
I've done some different stuff. Let's dive in!

## ✍️ Blogging

I managed to write not one, but five blog posts in June! I'm impressed with
myself.

- [My ideal development workflow](/blog/my-ideal-development-workflow).
- [Revisting paper notes](/blog/revisiting-paper-notes).
- [How to mirror from SourceHut to GitHub](/blog/mirror-sourcehut-to-github).
- [My thoughts on Helix after 6 months](/blog/my-thoughts-on-helix-after-6-months).
- [How to add a simple "Skip to content"-button to your website](/blog/simple-skip-to-content).

I started the habit of creating new Markdown-files for all the different ideas I
have, so now I have a small backlog with some posts I want to get to this
summer.

And I'm still getting emails from readers find my posts inspiring. It makes me
really happy! I blog mostly for myself and to help myself remember and empty the
brain cache, but knowing others find my stuff helpful and even inspiring is on
another level - thank you!

## 💪 Health

Same as last month, on and off with running. I'm optimistic for the rest of the
summer for more running! Gotta get in there for the remaining three
half-marathons I have left this year!

## 👨‍💻Development

I removed my timeline-page. I wasn't to fond of the design of it and it didn't
bring me any joy. It redirects to the [logs](/logs) for the time being.

Tried out Caddy as an alternative to nginx. A co-worker of mine recommended it,
Nils. It easier to setup than nginx-configs and I don't have to think about
certificates anymore. I might migrate my whole homelab and VPS-setup over to it.

And I started working on another new Deno Fresh-project,
[Filmpolitiet API](https://filmpolitiet.wyd.no/), which is basically a scraper
project that gets data from [NRK's Filmpolitiet](https://p3.no/filmpolitiet/)
and formats it into a queryable way. The goal with the project is to automate
webscraping of a website to build an API and I think I have achieved that now.
Now I need to document how to access the API properly. I'm storing the data in a
PocketBase-database. If you want to contribute or just check out the source code
– it's available on [SourceHut](https://sr.ht/~timharek/filmpolitiet-api/).

## 📚 Reading

I started reading a new book, How the World Really Works by Vaclav Smil. It's an
interesting read and I like the author's approach to explain everything!

## 🎬 Entertainment

Watched a bit this month, two movies and a two shows.

### Movies

- Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse – This can easliy be one of my favorite
  animated movies. It was so much fun! And visuals are stunning!
- Extraction 2 – This was a super "meh"-movie...

### TV

- Silo S1 – What a trip! I'm getting Fallout-vibes and some strange
  conspiracy-vibes from the whole thing. Super excited for whats to come!
- Black Mirror S6: Jaun is Awful – OK episode.
- Black Mirror S6: Loch Henry – Cool story, and I like how they brought in the
  "black mirror" aspect. People are weird.
- Black Mirror S6: Beyond the Sea – We can't go to other space now. This was a
  fucked up episode, in a good way.
- Black Mirror S6: Demon 79 – OK, never understood the "black mirror" aspect of
  this one.

And I started watching Secret Invasion S1. Not sure what I'm thinking yet, only
seen two episodes so far, but I think I like the story so far.
