+++
title = "May 2023"
description = "What I've been doing since (mid-May) April."
[taxonomies]
tags = ["recently", "100 days to offload"]
+++

This is cool, this marks my 1 year anniversary of my
[recently](/tags/recently)-posts. And I think I've managed to actually write for
every month since then, I'm impressed!

## 🌳 Life

As I mentioned in my [mid-May](@/blog/2023-05-11-since-april-2023.md)-post we
sold our apartment in May, we actually handed over the keys for it last week!
And we bought ourselves a new house away from the city, not to far, but not too
close either!

## ✍️ Blogging

Haven't had a lot of time to blog, or really the motivation to do so. I posted
one post if we ignore the mid-May one in May. Which was
[My thoughts on HubSpot CMS](@/blog/2023-05-11-my-thoughts-on-hubspot-cms.md),
it's very developer specific, but I wrote it mostly for myself as a reminder of
what I'ved learned from using that particular CMS.

I have a few posts in my backlog that I've wanted to write for a while but I
simply forgot or something else came up, so keep your RSS-reader ready!

## 💪 Health

It's been on and off with the running. But I frequent about 10-15 km a week, so
I'm satisfied. I have three more half-marathons in the fall that I signed up for
last year that I want better results in that the ones from this winter/spring.

## 👨‍💻Development

Not much has happend in this department other than some minor stuff in
[Hima](https://sr.ht/~timharek/hima/) and my own website. I did however start on
two new projects the other day, one is just for fun exercise where I want to
rewrite my website with Deno Fresh and PocketBase. I'm not planning on
switching, unless it is a major increase in DX and ease of use. It's just for
fun. And my other project is the same stack, but I don't want to annouce it yet
before I have a working demo.

## 🎬 Entertainment

Since I didn't say what I've consumed in April I will include it here this time.
Also, I'm watchin Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse tomorrow and the reviews
so far look great!

### Movies

- Murder Mystery - A OK- movie, we watched in the easter break with family.
- Murder Mystery 2 - A little bit better than the first one, again we watched it
  with family.
- The Super Mario Bros. Movie - This was a nostaliga trip for me, it was a
  decent movie with a lot of throwbacks.
- Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 - Finally a good MCU movie again. The story
  wasn't super original, but the performances and the small story archs made the
  movie very enjoyable.
- Sisu - Basically Finnish John Wick. A decent movie with a Norwegian cast.
- The Quiet Girl - Great movie, the story was sad and really made you think how
  people had it back in the day.

### TV

Only managed to finish one show since March, and that was Netflix's new show
Beef. It's about two people who get in a road rage incident that escalates
really quickly.

### Games

Well, I haven't finished any, but I bought myself a Nintendo Switch (OLED) again
and the new Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom. It's been a great experience so far, I
have no idea how much I've played, but I'm enjoying myself with the open world.
