+++
title = "Kaizen #2"
description = "What's changed since last time."
tags = ["Kaizen"]
+++

It's been two months since last time, [Kaizen #1], it's better late than never!

## timharek.no

- Added blue border to the top.
- Added id to headings.
- Added mono-font to deploy date in footer.
- Added recently-post template to blog CLI
- Added script for updating blogroll.
- Added support for JSR badges for projects.
- Added … to "More" menu item.
- CI/CD now uses `alpine/edge` instead of Ubuntu with custom Deno install.
- Changed the "blue" color across the whole website to match the logo.
- Cleaned up more Fresh deprecations.
- Made Fresh config available to `main.ts` and `dev.ts`.
- Refactored XML serialization.
- Renamed "Feedroll" -> "Blogroll".
- Renamed "Work" -> "Projects".
- Replaced twind with Tailwind.
- Moved all dependencies to `deno.json` instead of having them both in `deps.ts`
  and `deno.json`.
- Replaced most dependencies with JSR-versions.
- Updated `robots.txt` to disallow AIs.
- Updated blog CLI:
  - Uses `import.meta.main`
  - Suggest existing tags
  - Suggest slug

Mostly maintenance again, but there are a some new features. Some of the changes
are to prepare for the v2.0 release of Fresh.

## Home lab

I took down my Plex-instance running on my NUC in favor of [Jellyfin]. I took it
down because of all the shady stuff Plex has been doing lately like emailing all
my friends and family our watch history without telling us before hand. So now I
only run Jellyfin, so no more requiring internet to stream my own media.

I also set up a [Foundry]-instance a few friends and I use when we play TTRPGs,
it's been working really well. I expose it online via `headscale`, like I mostly
do with my "public"-facing services.

### Networking

The mesh-endpoint I'm using has almost been working without any hiccups except
for two times when it has lost connection to the main router, resulting in all
of the services running going down or becoming unavailable. Not sure yet what is
causing it, but giving the mesh-endpoint a power-cycle makes the problem go
away.

### Zimaboard update

I haven't gotten around to it yet, but when I do, except to read about it in a
[kaizen](/tags/kaizen) and read about my thoughts in an upcoming
[review](/tags/review).

[Kaizen #1]: /blog/kaizen-1
[Jellyfin]: https://jellyfin.org/
[Foundry]: https://foundryvtt.com/
