content/blog/2024-06-06-how-i-rss.md, before:

+++
title = "How I RSS"
description = "How I use RSS on a daily basis"
draft = true
tags = ["RSS"]
+++

Really Simple Syndication, aka RSS, is a webfeed that allows users and
applications to access updates to websites in a standardized and
computer-readable format. You can read more about it on
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSS). You can think of RSS as a way to
subscribe to a bunch of stuff without having to sign up for a bunch of different
services.

I use RSS every day, it's how I stay up to date on most things. It has become an
essential part of how I learn about new things, tech news, new podcast episodes
and so on. It has helped me tremendously from doomscrolling news sites, Hacker
News etc. after I deleted all of my social media a few years back.

The goal of this post is to show you how you can use RSS the same way I do.

To start things off, I use an iOS- and Mac-application called
[NetNewsWire](https://netnewswire.com/). I use it because it's simple and does
nothing more than I need it to do. And it allows me to connect to different
RSS-services if I access my subscriptions on other devices. Currently I use
[Feedbin], but the iCloud-sync might work for you have an iPhone. I also hear
good things about [Miniflux]. All of which are open source, but there's also
[Feedly] which is closed source.

Let me show you an example of how I use the Mac-app when I first open it:

<figure>
  <video controls src="/img/blog/2024-06-06-how-i-rss/browsing-netnewswire.mp4" alt=""></video>
  <figcaption>
    How I usually browse RSS subscriptions.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

One thing I do is that I always want to start from the beginning, the oldest
thing that I haven't read. In my case I then scroll all the way to the bottom to
get a sense of how much there is and then I scroll my way up from the oldest to
the latest post. In NetNewsWire I can use my arrow keys to scroll between the
items.

And when there is a post I want to bookmark or read in my browser I click the
title in the viewer. NetNewsWire allows me to set it up so that it opens the
links in the background so that I can continue browsing through the posts that I
have unread.

<figure>
  <img
    src="/img/blog/2024-06-06-how-i-rss/settings.webp"
    alt="">
  <figcaption>
    Screenshot of my NetNewsWire settings
  </figcaption>
</figure>

When I come across a new blog or website I want to subscribe to I usually copy
the URL from the site and paste it into NetNewsWire, and if the author has
specified the path to the RSS or uses one of the common paths NetNewsWire picks
it up and adds it to your subscriptions.

I use this setup the same way on my phone.

And if you want to subscribe to my blog, you can simply paste the base URL of my
website to your RSS-reader of choice and you'll be able to see next time I post
something.

[Feedbin]: https://feedbin.com/
[Miniflux]: https://miniflux.app/
[Feedly]: https://feedly.com/

Commit message:

chore: Clean up post and publish draft
Signed-off-by: Tim Hårek Andreassen <tim@harek.no>

content/blog/2024-06-06-how-i-rss.md, after:

+++
title = "How I RSS"
description = "How I use RSS on a daily basis"
tags = ["RSS", "IndieWeb"]
+++

Really Simple Syndication, aka RSS, is a webfeed that allows users and
applications to access updates to websites in a standardized and
computer-readable format. You can read more about it on
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSS). You can think of RSS as a way to
subscribe to a bunch of stuff without having to sign up for a bunch of different
services.

I use RSS every day, it's how I stay up to date on most things. It has become an
essential part of how I learn about new things, tech news, new podcast episodes
and so on. It has helped me tremendously from doomscrolling news sites, Hacker
News etc. after I deleted all of my social media a few years back.

The goal of this post is to show you how you can use RSS the same way I do.

To start things off, I use an iOS and Mac application called [NetNewsWire]. I
use it because it's simple and does nothing more than I need it to do. And it
allows me to connect to different RSS-services if I access my subscriptions on
other devices. Currently I use [Feedbin], but the iCloud-sync might work if you
have an iPhone. I also hear good things about [Miniflux]. All of which are open
source, but there's also [Feedly] which is closed source.

Let me show you an example of how I use the Mac-app when I first open it:

<figure>
  <video controls src="/img/blog/2024-06-06-how-i-rss/browsing-netnewswire.mp4" alt=""></video>
  <figcaption>
    How I usually browse RSS subscriptions.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

One thing I do is that I always want to start from the beginning, the oldest
thing that I haven't read. In my case, I then scroll all the way to the bottom
to get a sense of how much there is, and then I scroll my way up from the oldest
to the latest post. In NetNewsWire I can use my arrow keys to scroll between the
items.

And when there is a post I want to bookmark or read in my browser I click the
title in the viewer. NetNewsWire allows me to set it up so that it opens the
links in the background so that I can continue browsing through the posts that I
have unread.

<figure>
  <img
    src="/img/blog/2024-06-06-how-i-rss/settings.webp"
    alt="">
  <figcaption>
    Screenshot of my NetNewsWire settings
  </figcaption>
</figure>

When I come across a new blog or website I want to subscribe to I usually copy
the URL from the site and paste it into NetNewsWire, and if the author has
specified the path to the RSS or uses one of the common paths NetNewsWire picks
it up and adds it to your subscriptions.

I use this setup the same way on my phone.

And if you want to subscribe to my blog, you can simply paste the base URL of my
website to your RSS-reader of choice and you'll be able to see next time I post
something.

I hope this short post was informative and nudged you in the direction of RSS.
And if you have any questions, suggestions etc., don't hesitate to use the
reply-button below!

[NetNewsWire]: https://netnewswire.com/
[Feedbin]: https://feedbin.com/
[Miniflux]: https://miniflux.app/
[Feedly]: https://feedly.com/
