+++
title = "May 2025"
description = "What I've been up to since April."
tags = ["Recently"]
+++

The shortest work month in Norway is over, and summer is right around the
corner!

From the blog this month:

- [Docker Context](/blog/2025-05-06-docker-context)
- [Introducing git-bump][git-bump]

## 🍀 Life

My SO started traveling offshore this month. She was told it was going to be an
average of 4 days a month offshore, but her first month traveling offshore she's
been away for 10 days. Being a part-time single dad for those days wasn't that
bad, except for the first day away. We're fortunate to have such a happy and
patient daughter.

We went on a weekend-family cruise with most of my family, 27 family members, to
Denmark. It was an experience for sure! Nice to see the family together for more
than a few hours.

And I also joined the my housing cooperative as a board member. Maybe I will
revisit my
"[I made a website for the place I live](/blog/i-made-a-website-for-the-place-i-live/)"-post.
Time will show!

## 💪 Health

Been somewhat regular with my running except for the 10 days my SO was away, I
had to find some time during work (while working from home) to run. Besides that
I went hiking for the first time in awhile again, it was a great exercise and it
made me realize just how much I've missed hiking. When we lived in the city I
used to go hiking a couple times a week, now it's almost been two years.

## 🧑‍💻 Development

I created a new project, `git-bump`, that I [blogged about last week][git-bump].
And I have already managed to use it a lot for work. It's not a complicated
tool, but it still saves me time.

In [Hima](https://sr.ht/~timharek/hima/) I have done a bit:

- (re)Added user support with auth
- (re)Added tag support for items
- (re)Added icons
- Added a custom HTTP-handler with awesome helpers for returning JSON, HTML,
  errors, files etc. (Thanks, Fredrik!)

I've been thinking about writing dedicated Hima devlogs on the blog to force
myself to write more, and to write more technical about how I do stuff. Share
some screenshots, and document the development process and progress. Please let
me know if this is interesting (it will motivate me more ;)).

## 🎬 Entertainment

From my [logs](/logs).

### Movies

- **Thunderbolts\* (2025)** – Meh. The third act was weird and slow. Hopefully
  the next "Fant4stic" movie can fix the MCU-drought.
- **The Brutalist (2024)** – Long movie, and not in a bad way. The overall story
  was great, some characters could have been explored more imho.

### TV

- **Andor S2** – The atmosphere in this show is excellent. The tone feels a lot
  more Star Wars than some of the other recent shows. The main characters is
  really something too.
- **The Last of Us S2** – Really good, but not the same as the previous season.
  I'm not too sold on Ellie's character. The other supporting characters was
  excellent.

Started watching **Murderbot S1**, I had high expectations for this show, but
after the first four episodes the whole tone feels off. I like Skarsgård's
performance as SecUnit, but the overall tone feels off. I have to read the books
again.

## 🌐 Links

- [Reinvent the Wheel] – Let's (re)invent!
- [Own Your Email Domain] – Just do it!
- [Postman is logging all your secrets and environment variables] – This makes
  me glad that I have never downloaded Postman, I have always looked for open
  source alternatives.
- [No Instagram, no privacy] – “being in control of what other people know about
  you”
- [A Better Man Page Viewer] – I'm so glad I read this. This lead me to find
  `export MANPAGER="sh -c 'col -bx | bat -l man -p'"`. My life is forever
  changed because of this tiny thing.
- [Dying for Beauty] – This makes me jealous.
- [Motivation] – You can't fake it.
- [Deno’s Decline (6 Regions and Falling)] – I have to agree with David... I
  haven't used Deno Deploy, but I did use Deno a lot, especially Fresh. But it
  does seem like they try to become 1:1 with Node instead of innovating on what
  made Deno special (URL imports etc.).
- [Against Horizontal Scroll (Even More)] – It can get annoying when it has a
  tiny scroll, especially on a phone.

[Reinvent the Wheel]: https://endler.dev/2025/reinvent-the-wheel/
[Own Your Email Domain]:
  https://matthewsanabria.dev/posts/own-your-email-domain/
[Postman is logging all your secrets and environment variables]:
  https://anonymousdata.medium.com/postman-is-logging-all-your-secrets-and-environment-variables-9c316e92d424
[No Instagram, no privacy]:
  https://blog.wouterjanleys.com/blog/no-instagram-no-privacy/
[A Better Man Page Viewer]: https://www.visualmode.dev/a-better-man-page-viewer
[Dying for Beauty]: https://alan.norbauer.com/articles/dying-for-beauty/
[Motivation]: https://world.hey.com/jason/motivation-50ab8280
[Deno’s Decline (6 Regions and Falling)]:
  https://dbushell.com/2025/04/28/denos-decline/
[Against Horizontal Scroll (Even More)]:
  https://alan.norbauer.com/articles/against-horizontal-scroll/
[git-bump]: /blog/2025-05-22-introducing-git-bump
