+++
title = 'July 2025'
description = "What I've been up to since June."
tags = ["Recently"]
+++

Only a few days left of the summer vacation, and here we are again! Let's recap
what I've been up to since June.

## 🍀 Life

Started our summer vacation this month, starting work again on Monday.

We've been to some friend's cabin with our daughter, hiking and just hanging
out. We went to my hometown and Stavanger for my brother's wedding. Visited
family at their cabin, gone fishing, went to the beach, and much more.

And we bought a new car! We have wanted a new car for a long time now, and I
finally pulled the trigger and bought a used Volkswagen ID. Buzz 2022/2023. Our
previous car was an 2013 Skoda Rapid, it was the most barebone car ever, but it
got the job done (mostly). We've had the car for a little more than a week now.
My SO was initially skeptic to the car because of its look, but after driving it
for two hours straight she was sold! It's the newest car I have ever owned and
the car with the most features. There are some stuff that I don't like, and some
stuff that I really don't like, but the stuff I like outweigh the dislikes. I'm
working on a review of the car, to help me comprehend how bad some stuff is with
modern cars and their "always-on" shenanigans.

Since we bought a new car, I also managed to sell our old car within 24 hours!
So now we don't need to worry about that anymore.

To wrap up our summer we're going to a second wedding, to my cousin's, in my
hometown this weekend.

## 💪 Health

I was so lucky this month that I have managed to get sick not once, not twice,
but thrice! It might have been an evolution of the original sickness. And as of
writing this I'm still not 100%, but I've been out and about nonetheless.

## 🧑‍💻 Development

Absolutely no coding this month. I've read about a bunch of stuff though.

I discovered [9001/copyparty] in my YouTube recommendations, and it has given me
a lot of different ideas. Firstly I want to remove Nextcloud from my life. I
barely use its features. A simple (and powerful) file-server will be good
enough.

copyparty also gave me an idea for [Hima](https://sr.ht/~timharek/hima):
receipts (and more) should just be files. This would allow people to use their
local-filesystems to upload and add receipts. Today my workflow is to scan a
physical receipt with iOS Files app to get a PDF to upload. With my new purposed
solution I just have to scan/add the receipt to the correct folder and Hima
would pick it up. I've written more about it here:
<https://todo.sr.ht/~timharek/hima/88>

## 🎬 Entertainment

From my [logs](/logs).

Wow! Managed to watch a lot of media this month.

### Movies

- **Palm Springs (2020)** – I know they wanted to say, but they didn't.
  Groundhog Day. The movie could have been better if they had explored a bit
  more around how long the Nyles character was around.
- **War Dogs (2016)** – Rewatch. The movie still holds up well.
- **Spermageddon (2025)** – What a movie 😂
- **Superman (2025)** – What a blast! The action, acting, and overall story was
  really cool. They even made Superman's silly costume work, and his weird moves
  from the comics and games like spinning around work perfectly. The supporting
  cast and heroes also worked well. Now, I have high hopes for the DCU.
- **The Power of the Dog (2021)** – The first half was bad, the story felt
  stitched together. The second half was good and the ending was wtf.
- **The Fantastic Four: First Steps (2025)** – Fun movie! There was a lot less
  superheroing than I expected. The big bad was meh. Silver Surfer's CGI looked
  worse than the one in 2007 movie.
- **28 Years Later (2025)** – An intense movie from start to finish! I liked
  that they kept the shaky handycam visuals for some shots in the movie, and I
  really liked the music and score.
- **How to Train Your Dragon (2025)** – The CGI was great, the acting was
  so-and-so – and the overall story isn't that great, feels like it's missing
  something.
- **Warfare (2025)** – Holy shit! It's been a while since I've watched a movie
  that only takes place within one building. The movie is intense from start to
  finish. The acting is superb, and the attention to detail about shellshock and
  trauma was excellent. War fucking sucks.

### TV

- **Squid Game (2021)** – Nearly perfect ending, except for introducing \*\*\*
  version of Squid Game. It did pique my interest if they are going to continue
  the story or end it there. Time will show.
- **Murderbot (2025)** – It doesn't remind me much of the books, to be honest.
  The overall show was great, and the setting is really cool. But I want it to
  be more like the books. The tone was the only thing in the show that was off.
  It never really landed. It felt like they were trying to be funny and dramatic
  like Fallout, but it wasn't funny like that. Just more awkward 😅
- **Ironheart (2025)** – It's barely better than Ms. Marvel. I only watched it
  because one big character was introduced in the last episode. And Zeke was a
  cool character up until the end.
- **The Rehearsal (2022)** – WTF... Nathan is so weird, and fucking awkward.
- **The Rehearsal (2022)** – This Nathan fellow is almost too dedicated to his
  craft!
- **Rick and Morty (2013)** – It's getting boring now. I just watch it to see if
  the "story" progresses.

## 🌐 Links

- [How to increase your surface area for luck] – Interact with people. Ask
  questions. Be curious. Don't be an asshole.
- [9001/copyparty] – This has to be the coolest file-server ever. It has all the
  features.
- [Claude Code is a Slot Machine] – Perfect, just perfect.
- [No One Knows Anything About AI] – AI is hype, it's like a power tool for
  developers.
- [Log by Time, not by Count] – I don't think I have ever logged based on count
  before, but this makes a lot of sense!
- [Renting is for Suckers] – That's one way to put it.
- [Inverse Triangle Inequality] – Good software practices!
- [Gaslight-driven development] – I like this term!
- [Kite] – Cool service!
- [Flounder Mode] – I had never heard about Kevin Kelly before. Excellent essay
  by Brie about the struggles of today's hustle culture, and how people like
  Kevin show us that we don't need that hustle to get by.
- [Let a website be a worry stone.] – TIL worry stone is a thing.
- [The Email Startup Graveyard: Why Most Email Companies Fail] – Excellent
  write-up about email startups, existing and deceased.
- [Local First Software Is Easier to Scale] – "I like to brag about not having
  to scale at all."

[How to increase your surface area for luck]:
  https://usefulfictions.substack.com/p/how-to-increase-your-surface-area
[9001/copyparty]:
  https://github.com/9001/copyparty/?tab=readme-ov-file#iOS-shortcuts
[Claude Code is a Slot Machine]:
  https://rgoldfinger.com/blog/2025-07-26-claude-code-is-a-slot-machine/
[No One Knows Anything About AI]:
  https://calnewport.com/no-one-knows-anything-about-ai/
[Log by Time, not by Count]:
  https://johnscolaro.xyz/blog/log-by-time-not-by-count
[Renting is for Suckers]:
  https://andrewkelley.me/post/renting-is-for-suckers.html
[Inverse Triangle Inequality]:
  https://matklad.github.io/2025/07/07/inverse-triangle-inequality.html
[Gaslight-driven development]:
  https://tonsky.me/blog/gaslight-driven-development/
[Kite]: https://kite.kagi.com/
[Flounder Mode]: https://joincolossus.com/article/flounder-mode/
[Let a website be a worry stone.]:
  https://ethanmarcotte.com/wrote/let-a-website-be-a-worry-stone/
[The Email Startup Graveyard: Why Most Email Companies Fail]:
  https://forwardemail.net/en/blog/docs/email-startup-graveyard-why-80-percent-email-companies-fail
[Local First Software Is Easier to Scale]:
  https://elijahpotter.dev/articles/local-first_software_is_easier_to_scale
