content/about.md, before:

+++
title = "About"
description = "About Tim Hårek, a technologist based in Norway."
updated = 2023-08-13
+++

I'm Tim Hårek Andreassen, a technologist, developer, UX designer, hiker and
dog-person from the west coast of Norway. I care about creating solutions that
respects people, in terms of privacy, security and user experience.

I work as a developer at Value Group where I dabble with full stack development,
architecture, accessibility and UX design.

During my my free time I learn about new technologies, automate my everyday and
hike with my dog! 🐕

## Contact

You can always reach me at
<a href="mailto:tim@harek.no" rel="me">tim@harek.no</a>.

## Colophon

This website is built using [Deno Fresh][deno_fresh] by yours truly.

Proud member of:

- [1MB club][1mb].
- [512KB club][512kb].

Source code is available on [SourceHut][sourcehut].

[1984]: https://1984hosting.com
[deno_fresh]: https://fresh.deno.dev/
[1mb]: https://1mb.club
[512kb]: https://512kb.club
[sourcehut]: https://git.sr.ht/~timharek/timharek.no

Commit message:

feat: Add now-page
Signed-off-by: Tim Hårek Andreassen <tim@harek.no>

content/about.md, after:

+++
title = "About"
description = "About Tim Hårek, a technologist based in Norway."
updated = 2023-08-13
+++

I'm Tim Hårek Andreassen, a technologist, developer, UX designer, hiker and
dog-person from the west coast of Norway. I care about creating solutions that
respects people, in terms of privacy, security and user experience.

I work as a developer at Value Group where I dabble with full stack development,
architecture, accessibility and UX design.

During my my free time I learn about new technologies, automate my everyday and
hike with my dog! 🐕

Check out my [now](/now)-page for what I'm up to now.

## Contact

You can always reach me at
<a href="mailto:tim@harek.no" rel="me">tim@harek.no</a>.

## Colophon

This website is built using [Deno Fresh][deno_fresh] by yours truly.

Proud member of:

- [1MB club][1mb].
- [512KB club][512kb].

Source code is available on [SourceHut][sourcehut].

[1984]: https://1984hosting.com
[deno_fresh]: https://fresh.deno.dev/
[1mb]: https://1mb.club
[512kb]: https://512kb.club
[sourcehut]: https://git.sr.ht/~timharek/timharek.no
