pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
title_alt: <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">whoami</code>
permalink: /about
menu: main
description: About Tim Hårek, a developer based in Norway.
---

My name is Tim Hårek Andreassen. I am a developer, designer, hiker and dog-person from the west coast of Norway. I care about creating solutions that respects people, in terms of privacy, security and user experience.

Currently, I am finishing the last semester of my bachelors degree in Computer Security at the University of Bergen. Where I've learned a lot of different practices in terms of development, security and privacy.

I spend my free time learning about new technologies, automating my everyday and mostly hiking with my dog, Ayla! 🐕

## My website

I self host my website using [1984Hosting](https://1984hosting.com), which is based on Iceland. The website is built using [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) with [Vim](https://www.vim.org/). You can view the source code on [GitHub](https://github.com/timharek/timharek.no).

My website is part of the <a href="https://512kb.club"><img src="https://512kb.club/assets/images/green-team.svg" /></a>

Commit message:

chore: Cleaned up footer and moved contact details
- Removed Contact-page
- Moved contact details, including SoMe, to About-page
- Corrected simple CSS-bug

pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
title_alt: <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">whoami</code>
permalink: /about
menu: main
description: About Tim Hårek, a developer based in Norway.
---

My name is Tim Hårek Andreassen. I am a developer, designer, hiker and dog-person from the west coast of Norway. I care about creating solutions that respects people, in terms of privacy, security and user experience.

Currently, I am finishing the last semester of my bachelors degree in Computer Security at the University of Bergen. Where I've learned a lot of different practices in terms of development, security and privacy.

I spend my free time learning about new technologies, automating my everyday and mostly hiking with my dog, Ayla! 🐕

## Contact
- Email: [{{ site.email }}](mailto:{{ site.email }}) ([public key](/key))
- Mastodon: [{{ site.mastodon_username }}@{{ site.mastodon_instance }}](https://{{ site.mastodon_instance }}/@{{ site.mastodon_username }})
- GitHub: [@{{ site.github_username }}](https://github.com/{{ site.github_username }})

## My website

I self-host my website using [1984Hosting](https://1984hosting.com), which is based on Iceland. The website is built using [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) with [Vim](https://www.vim.org/). 

Source code is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/timharek/timharek.no).
