pages/pgp.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Public key
permalink: /key
description: Tim Hårek's public key PGP
---

fingerprint: `18131862de62d969f02a14e834853dfd0b419a0d`

You can download my key [here](/assets/public-key.asc)

```
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----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=enbd
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
```

Commit message:

chore: Uploaded my public key to openpgp.org
Updated my contact and pgp pages accordingly

pages/pgp.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Public key
permalink: /key
description: Tim Hårek's public key PGP
---

Fingerprint: `18131862de62d969f02a14e834853dfd0b419a0d`

You can download my key [here](/assets/public-key.asc), you can also find it on [keys.openpgp.org](https://keys.openpgp.org/search?q=tim%40harek.dev).

```
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----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=enbd
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
```
